# Outline

Product Vision > Themes > Epics > User Stories > Components > DB > API > UI Design > Frontend

## PHASE 1: AGILE PRODUCT PLANNING

## **Resources to follow**

- [Agile Product Management (Atlassian Documentation) ](https://www.atlassian.com/agile/product-management)
  
- [Agile product planning (YouTube Playlist)](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLxO4vxvvorbs2CL4K9KgBGvISSs_CPLNR)
  
- Book: *Engineering Software Products: An Introduction to Modern Software Engineering, Global Edition* (2021)

---

## 1. PRODUCT VISION ✅

### What is Product Vision

Your starting point for product development should be an informal “product vision.” A product vision is a simple and succinct statement that defines the essence of the product being developed. It explains how the product differs from competing products. This product vision is used as a basis for developing a more detailed description of the features and attributes of the product. As new features are proposed, you should check them against the vision to make sure they contribute to it.

The product vision should answer three fundamental questions:

1. What is the product you propose to develop? What makes this product different from competing products?

2. Who are the target users and customers for the product?

3. Why should customers buy this product?

### How to Create Product Vision

1. Vision workshop
   - Selection of key stakeholders
2. Product Owner leads the session and afterwards guards the vision.
3. Product Owner describes the idea to everyone.
4. Everyone writes their motivation statement.
5. Compare motivations and combine them into one vision statement.

### Things to Understand About Product Vision

- Clear & achievable dream

### How to Document Product Vision

1. Vision
   - What is the purpose of creating the product?
   - Which positive changes should we bring about?
2. Mission
3. Target Group
   - Which market or market segment does the product address?
   - Who are the target customers and users?
4. Needs
   - What problem does the product solve?
   - Which benefit does it provide?
5. Product
   - What is it?
   - What makes it stand out?
   - Is it feasible to develop the product?

---

## 2. PRODUCT ROADMAP

## 3. PRODUCT REQUIREMENTS DOCUMENT (PRD)

## 4. RELEASE PLANS

## 5. CREATE PRODUCT BACKLOG

## 6. BACKLOG REFINEMENT

## 7. USER STORIES

## 8. IDENTIFY MINIMUM VIABLE PRODUCT (MVP)
